docs: astra json tool example (#7764)
langflow-ai/langflow: docs/docs/Components/components-tools.md

| papers | Papers | List of retrieved arXiv papers |

## Astra DB tool

This component allows agents to query data from Astra DB collections.

To use this tool in a flow, connect it to an **Agent** component.
The flow looks like this:

![Astra DB JSON tool connected to an Agent](/img/component-astra-db-json-tool.png)

The **Tool Name** and **Tool Description** fields are required for the Agent to decide when to use the tool.
**Tool Name** cannot contain spaces.

The values for **Collection Name**, **Astra DB Application Token**, and **Astra DB API Endpoint** are found in your Astra DB deployment. For more information, see the [DataStax documentation](https://docs.datastax.com/en/astra-db-serverless/databases/create-database.html).

In this example, an **OpenAI** embeddings component is connected to use the Astra DB tool component's **Semantic Search** capability.
To use **Semantic Search**, you must have an embedding model or Astra DB Vectorize enabled.
If you try to run the flow without an embedding model, you will get an error.

Open the **Playground** and ask a question about your data.
The Agent uses the **Astra DB Tool** to return information about your collection.

> ### Astra DB tool parameters

Reviewer: Since you have steps in this section, you should use a verb-based title. For example, "Define Astra DB tool parameters".

The **Tool Parameters** configuration pane allows you to define parameters for [filter conditions](https://docs.datastax.com/en/astra-db-serverless/api-reference/document-methods/find-many.html#parameters) for the component's **Find** command.

These filters become available as parameters that the LLM can use when calling the tool, with a better understanding of each parameter provided by the **Description** field.

1. To define a parameter for your query, in the **Tool Parameters** pane, click <Icon name="Plus" aria-label="Add"/>.
2. Complete the fields based on your data. For example, with this filter, the LLM can filter by unique `customer_id` values.

* Name: `customer_id`
* Attribute Name: Leave empty if the attribute matches the field name in the database
* Description: `"The unique identifier of the customer to filter by"`
* Is Metadata: `False` (unless it's stored in the metadata field)
* Is Mandatory: `True` (if you want to require this filter)
* Is Timestamp: `False` (since this is an ID, not a timestamp)

> * Operator: `$eq` (for exact match)

Reviewer: Avoid parentheses.

> If you want to apply filters regardless of the LLM's input, use the **Static Filters** option available in the component's **Controls** pane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to apply filters regardless of the LLM's input, use the **Static Filters** option, which is available in the component's **Controls** pane.
```

| Name | The name of the parameter that is exposed to the LLM. It can be the same as the underlying field name or a more descriptive label. The LLM uses this name, along with the description, to infer what value to provide during execution. |
| Attribute Name | When the parameter name shown to the LLM differs from the actual field or property in the database, use this setting to map the user-facing name to the correct attribute. For example, to apply a range filter to the timestamp field, define two separate parameters, such as `start_date` and `end_date`, that both reference the same timestamp attribute. |
| Description | Provides instructions to the LLM on how the parameter should be used. Clear and specific guidance helps the LLM provide valid input. For example, if a field such as `specialty` is stored in lowercase, the description should indicate that the input must be lowercase. |
| Is Metadata | When loading data using LangChain or Langflow, additional attributes may be stored under a metadata object. If the target attribute is stored this way, enable this option. It adjusts the query by generating a filter in the format: `{"metadata.<attribute_name>": "<value>"}` |

> | Is Timestamp | For date or time-based filters, enable this option to automatically convert values to the timestamp format expected by the Astrapy client. This ensures compatibility with the underlying API without requiring manual formatting. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Is Timestamp | For date or time-based filters, enable this option to automatically convert values to the timestamp format that the Astrapy client expects. This ensures compatibility with the underlying API without requiring manual formatting. |
```

## Astra DB Tool

This component allows agents to query data from Astra DB collections.

To use this tool in a flow, connect it to an **Agent** component.
The flow looks like this:

![Astra DB JSON tool connected to an Agent](/img/starter-flow-simple-agent.png)

The **Tool Name** and **Tool Description** fields are required for the Agent to decide when to use the tool.
**Tool Name** cannot contain spaces.

The values for **Collection Name**, **Astra DB Application Token**, and **Astra DB API Endpoint** are found in your Astra DB deployment. For more information, see the [DataStax documentation](https://docs.datastax.com/en/astra-db-serverless/databases/create-database.html).

In this example, an **OpenAI** embeddings component is connected to use the Astra DB tool component's **Semantic Search** capability.
To use **Semantic Search**, you must have an embedding model or Astra DB Vectorize enabled.
If you try to run the flow without an embedding model, you will get an error.

Open the **Playground** and ask a question about your data.
The Agent uses the **Astra DB Tool** to return information about your collection.

> ### Astra DB tool parameters

Reviewer 2: Minor NIT: should "tool" be capitalized here like it is at the beginning?

Author: Heh, other way around, it shouldn't be capitalized in the beginning. Fixed

### Outputs

The **Data** output is used when directly querying Astra DB, while the **Tool** output is used when integrating with agents.

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|

> | Data | List[`Data`] | A list of [Data](/concepts-objects) objects containing the query results from Astra DB. Each `Data` object contains the document fields specified by the projection attributes. Limited by the `number_of_results` parameter. |

Reviewer 2: If this is how the tool operates and what it returns then nothing for you to change! I had thought that they were removing all List[`Data`] outputs... but maybe hasn't been done for this yet.

Author: It's still Data AFAICT https://github.com/langflow-ai/langflow/blob/main/src/backend/base/langflow/components/tools/astradb.py#L412
